# To the Mathematician turned Engineer

This post is only relevant to theorists who've turned engineers. If that's not you, you likely won't find too many insights here, but feel free to read along.

Engineers know tooling and procedure. They build the things that the occasional theorist comes up with. They get to spend a small portion of their time doing what theorists do (theorizing).

I studied applied math and computer science in college. Although, to be fair, I spent most of my time in math and I only used computer science as a neat "backup" for my applied math if things didn't work out. Luckily, that plan was successful, although I'll explain why that double major set myself up for failure in applied math (but not necessarily computer science). I had my fair share of moments where I wanted to become a pure mathematician. I dribbled the idea of gettin g my PhD in math all through undergrad because it was pretty fun to me. I later realized that this would never happen or it could happen, but I wouldn't be "good at my field". A good theorist specializes, and almost never generalizes (maybe that statement should be prefaced with "today...", because it sure wasn't like that in the golden age of computers with code slinging mathematicians). 

A theorist spends 8 hours thinking. An engineer spends 1 hour thinking, and 7 hours building. You _will_ be discouraged with your seemingly sharp cognitive decline. If you're anything like me, and worry about everything, you'll feel inadequette. You spent your entire education solving very challenging problems in your math classes, only to be tasked with building a CRUD application with the most challenging block of code being a spaghettified string of if's and then's. You'll feel like the problems you are solving aren't up to the standard of the problems you solved as a mathematician. 

My suggestion: let it pan out for a while and observe yourself. If, after awhile, it truly hurts you to the core to solve "easy" problems... enough to want to take a crack at your salary, then go back to school.

There's nothing wrong with theorizing. Academics are important, but we have too many of them. I'm no economist, but I do know when a resource is in surplus supply, the demand drops. Considering you make pennies as a professor, I think this points to something crucial. 

Theorists get to think without distractions. They get to think without the need to write unit tests, or talk to clients. Of course, there's certainly a world of politics in academia that I am not qualified to speak of, but the point is that their job is to think, research and come up with new ideas. Engineers take those ideas and 



Theorists theorize, that's their job. PhD students, researchers and 
